we can join Rebecca Rus who's near zikim
in southern Israel close to the border
with Gaza welcome Rebecca what's
happening well just prior to coming on
air actually Phil there was another
small volley of rockets coming from Gaza
uh that were intercepted here in our
area uh but earlier today uh just around
5:00 p.m. local time uh Hamas attacked
the city of ashalon now they sent a
message warning that they were going to
carry out this large attack warning
residents to evacuate because they were
going to attack that City uh they did so
and there was one hit a hotel was hit
we've had
no uh sorry the cries of somebody who
can see Rockets but uh there doesn't
appears to be a false alarm um uh and
the hotel was hit but we believe that
there wasn't anybody in the hotel at the
time uh we have colleagues that had
tried to stay in that hotel and they
were told that the hotel was uh not open
at the moment had been closed because of
what's going on so uh no reports of
casualties but at the hotel what the
city was hit um what's happening around
this area in particular and I as as far
as I'm aware all along the border with
Gaza is a really significant troop
buildup and Hardware buildup now we
don't know exactly what the plan there
is but it does appear that uh Israel is
readying itself for what looks like a
very big offensive uh everyone expects
it to be a big ground offensive and and
certainly that's what it looks like
there is big heavy machinery about 100 m
150 m in another area over there I
can see some Rockets
pH these Rockets are quite
low can you still hear me there Phil yes
absolutely are you able to see those
locket we can see those Rockets but if
you need to end this at any point then
obviously just do
so I'll let you know thank you but
that's been happening basically um all
day all afternoon uh at at relatively
regular intervals um and of course
the air the air strikes are continuing
on Gaza as well the Israelis have been
pounding uh the Gaza Strip pounding
those Hamas there's the siren pounding
those Hamas targets as they say the
civilian death toll will be rising
significantly in fact Rising so quickly
that the health authorities are not able
to keep up with the numbers so I have no
uh new numbers for you Phil from behind
from behind very close I think we do
have to take cover now Phil I'm afraid
all right thanks for
that so that's Rebecca RS near the the
near in southern Israel near the border
with
Gaza right we're going back to uh
Rebecca Rissa uh near the border uh with
Gaza now um Rebecca when uh when we when
we left just a couple of uh minutes ago
there was rocket Fire in the Sky um
things are calming
down yeah that has passed now but the
the reason I thought we perhaps better
take cover is it was actually quite low
much lower than we have been seeing in
the last couple of days uh we where
we're positioned actually uh the the
Rockets and the the missiles then they
they rarely make landfall in this area
but what we have to look out for of
course is the falling trapnel from the
interceptions from the Iron Dome um so
excuse me uh but that has been basically
happening all day that's what's going on
here back and forth uh pretty much all
day but as I was talking about before we
got cut off was of course the troop
buildup that is happening and what seems
to be Israel's next move which looks to
be like it's going to be a very big
offensive potentially uh a ground
Invasion that's what everyone's
expecting of course we have no official
word of what they're going to be doing
but by the looks of the hardware buildup
uh that we're seeing in the area it
definitely seems as though they're
preparing for something very big and
what what sort of Hardware are you
seeing I I appreciate you're not you're
not a military expert but you're seeing
what tanks and
lorries we tanks we're seeing anti-mine
uh tanks as well we're seeing these
really big diggers that are anti-mine
diggers it looks like they're to
maneuver uh to bulldo potentially houses
potentially buildings I'm not exactly
sure what they used for but all of these
machines in great numbers and we're also
seeing of course a huge troop buildup we
know that 300,000 reservists have been
called up uh that's no small number
though they do have a large area to
cover we're looking at a potentially
multif front confrontation here we've
we've seen this afternoon also some more
Rockets coming in from Lebanon now they
were intercepted they were no casualties
reported but it is keeping tensions it's
keeping definitely the military
establishment very much on edge they're
really looking towards the northern
border as well and looking towards uh
anything that might happen within the
West Bank uh so you know the 300,000
troops being stationed all across the
country but many of them you know most
of them I I haard to guess would be
stationed around here and are preparing
for what Benjamin Netanyahu promises as
a very strong Counterattack and could
drag this could drag this war on for
many weeks okay thanks that Rebecca and
Rebecca aritas in southern
Israel well Carlo Masala is a security
expert and professor of international
politics at the bundes University of
Munich welcome to DW let's talk first of
all about uh Israel's response is it
likely to be limited to air strikes or
are you expecting a ground
war no I expect the ground war in the in
the next hours in the next days to come
because the declared goal political goal
is the destruction of the military wing
and the political party of Hamas and
this can only be done by uh Ground
Forces so therefore we will see a
massive ground invasion in the days to
come so a ground war in a very in a
small area a particularly densely
populated area this is not going to be a
traditional war is it this is going to
be Urban uh
Warfare absolutely this is going to be
Urban Warfare this is a
three-dimensional War what I mean by
this is uh I mean you have to expect
that the enemy is attacking you from
above from below from uh from the front
and uh from behind you can't enter with
mechanized vehicles uh you have to go in
by infantry and you have to fight
basically for house and house uh it's
going to be a long War it's going to be
extremely bloody and messy so Israel has
said that it is not targeting ing uh
civilians but given the density of the
population there it is hard to see how
civilians can avoid being hit and one
wonders then if if if this is all
preparation for the ground war if you
level enough um uh blocks of of flats to
give the enemy nowhere to hide then if
you're sending troops in uh on the
ground not in tanks but on on on foot
that makes your job much
easier no I mean it doesn't make your
job much much easier the the the air
campaign is a preparation for the ground
war Israel has asked all civilians to
leave Gaza um as far as I know Egypt
will only accept 2,000 per day and uh
there are 2.2 million people living in
Gaza so uh it won't be possible that all
the civilians are going to leave uh will
be able to leave Gaza before the ground
Invasion starts and then secondly we
know from previous campaigns that um
Hamas is using civilians as a kind of
human Shields so therefore the the
ground invasion is the alternative to
bombing uh from above Gaza into rubbles
so which means basically the chances for
civilians to survive is much higher than
if uh Israel would rely on a purely a
air campaign but definitely we have to
expect that also civilians are getting
killed in this ground invasion is there
more bearing in mind that this this
ground invasion is still theoretical at
this stage hasn't hasn't begun yet is
there more that isra Israel could be
doing to um uh prevent against civilian
deaths well actually
Israel did what what it could do uh to
prevent a massive civilian casualties I
mean asking people to leave Gaza um in
in the framework of the air campaign
doing uh roof knocking which basically
means that you drop a small bomb on on
the roof of of of a skyscraper or a
house not causing much damage but
basically alerting the civilians to
leave the building because a quarter
after that the real bomb will uh come
into this uh house um sending uh short
messages uh to um the civilians in Gaza
where they can go in order to survive I
mean places where the Israeli Air Force
doesn't attack there is not much more
Israel can do to prevent casualties uh
civilian casualties uh once the ground
Invasion starts and bear in mind Hamas
will prevent civilians from leaving Gaza
because they need them as human Shields
as you've been speaking uh we've been
looking a at live pictures of the
destruction in Gaza let's take a step
back now and the question that everyone
is asking is how did Hamas manage to
launch attacks and incursions on such a
massive scale undetected by us or
Israeli
intelligence well this is I mean this is
the the $6 million question for the time
being I don't think that the Israeli uh
Security Services didn't notice that
there were some that there was something
going on but I think that they uh took
the the wrong conclusions or even worse
they alerted uh Israeli politics and
they ignored uh the advice of of the
security service or basically the the
analysis of the security service one way
or the other this is a massive political
failure and the massive failure of the
Israeli Security
Services and the other end of that
question of course is how did Hamas
manage to build up the resources to
launch this unprecedented attack what
how did they get how did how did they
get hold of of the the the weapons in
order to achieve
this well first of all we haven't seen
from from what we know from pictures and
videos we haven't seen any weapons used
in this attack which uh we didn't know
that they are in the possession of Hamas
so usually they get their weapons
through tunnels smuggling mostly through
Egypt provided by Iran but this is
something which goes on for decades so
we don't know about any new types of
weapons they used so the weapons they
used were the weapons we know Hamas was
in possession with uh of but what was
surprising was the
coordination um of this attack because
this attack happened from uh land from
from air and from sea and the interplay
between those three dimension is
something which is usually unknown for
Hamas right let's zoom out now is there
a risk that the severity of Israel's
response could draw The Wider region
into this
conflict well I don't think that uh this
uh will depend on the severity of
Israel's response I mean there there
there might be the open I mean to save
Hamas there might be the opening of a
second front in the North of Israel by
hisbah and then Israel will will face a
twoof front War which uh will pose
enormous challenges uh for Israel
secondly imagine that Israel is able to
crash Hamas and to defeat hisbah there
might be an Iranian reaction and then we
are in an uncontrollable situation in
the whole region so this conflict has
really the potential to to spill over to
more uh uh to more actors in the region
to more players in the region and become
a kind of
uncontrollable it's very clear good
talking to you thanks for talking us
through that Carlo Masala from bundes
University
Munich you're
welcome